*togglecursor.txt*  Change cursor in insert mode

Author:  John Szakmeister <http://www.szakmeister.net/>
License: Same terms as Vim itself (see |license|)

This plugin is only available if 'compatible' is not set, and your vim has
been compiled with |+cursorshape| support.

==============================================================================
INTRODUCTION                                                    *togglecursor*

In gVim, when you change from normal mode to insert mode, the cursor shape
typically changes from a block cursor to a line ('|') cursor.  However, in a
terminal, you lose that feature.  This plugin aims to help bring it back on
supported terminals.

==============================================================================
SUPPORTED TERMINALS                                   *togglecursor-supported*

Currently supported terminals are iTerm2 for the Mac and KDE's Konsole.  The
xterm console is partially supported as well.  Older xterm's didn't support
the line cursor, so this plugin currently sets the cursor to underline
instead.

The gnome-terminal application doesn't support changing the cursor via escape
sequences and is not supported.  On unsupported terminals, Vim's default
behavior is left unaltered.

The plugin also supports tmux, and will change your cursor inside a tmux
session too.

==============================================================================
OPTIONS                                                 *togglecursor-options*

All the options take a string representing the shape.  The shape is allowed to
be one of 'block', 'line', or 'underline'.

                                                        *togglecursor_default*
g:togglecursor_default  The default cursor shape.  It is used in all modes
                        except insert mode.  The default value is 'block'.

                                                         *togglecursor_insert*
g:togglecursor_insert   The insert mode cursor shape.  The default value is
                        'line'.

                                                          *togglecursor_leave*
g:togglecursor_leave    The cursor shape to set when exiting Vim.  The default
                        value is to be the same a |togglecursor_default|.


==============================================================================
LIMITATIONS                                         *togglecursor-limitations*

Since this plugin relies on detecting on the type of terminal being run, it
will not work automatically when working remotely.  The required environment
variables are simply not available.

This also doesn't support all terminals.  Currently, only iTerm2 for the Mac,
and Konsole under Linux are supported.  Others may be added later, as long as
there is a safe way to detect and add that support.

Also, this plugin works by setting the |t_SI| and |t_EI| options, so there are
some limits as to what it can do.  For instance, assume your cursor type in
the terminal is to have an underline cursor, but |togglecursor_default| is set
to 'block'.  When Vim starts, the cursor will still be an underline cursor
because the shape is only changed on entering and exiting insert mode.  The
cursor will only become a block-style cursor after you've gone into and exited
insert mode.

==============================================================================
ABOUT                                                     *togglecursor-about*

Grab the latest version or report a bug on GitHub:

https://github.com/jszakmeister/vim-togglecursor

vim:ft=help
